Determine hoisted scripts via AST analysis (#7707)
withastro/astro: .changeset/real-drinks-melt.md

---
'astro': minor
---

Improved hoisted script bundling

Astro uses static analysis to determine which `<script>` to bundle together. This allows us to create bundles that optimize script usage between pages and place them in the head of the document so that they are downloaded as early as possible. The downside is that you cannot dynamically use hoisted scripts.

Now Astro has improved the static analysis to take into account the imports used. If you have a library that re-exports components like so:

__@matthewp/my-astro-lib__

```js
export { default as Tabs } from './Tabs.astro';
export { default as Accordion } from './Accordion.astro';
```

Then let's say you have a page that uses just the Accordion like so:

```astro
---
import { Accordion } from '@matthewp/my-astro-lib';
---
```

> Previously Astro would bundle `<script>`s from both the Tabs and Accordion onto this page, even though on the Accordion is used. Now Astro is a little smarter and can support this re-export pattern that is common among libraries.

Reviewer: A small typo here!
```suggestion
Previously Astro would bundle `<script>`s from both the Tabs and Accordion onto this page, even though only the Accordion is used. Now Astro is a little smarter and can support this re-export pattern that is common among libraries.
```

> Improved hoisted script bundling
> 
> Astro uses static analysis to determine which `<script>` to bundle together. This allows us to create bundles that optimize script usage between pages and place them in the head of the document so that they are downloaded as early as possible. The downside is that you cannot dynamically use hoisted scripts.
> 
> Now Astro has improved the static analysis to take into account the imports used. If you have a library that re-exports components like so:
> 
> __@matthewp/my-astro-lib__
> 
> ```js
> export { default as Tabs } from './Tabs.astro';
> export { default as Accordion } from './Accordion.astro';
> ```
> 
> Then let's say you have a page that uses just the Accordion like so:
> 
> ```astro
> ---
> import { Accordion } from '@matthewp/my-astro-lib';
> ---
> ```
> 
> Previously Astro would bundle `<script>`s from both the Tabs and Accordion onto this page, even though only the Accordion is used. Now Astro is a little smarter and can support this re-export pattern that is common among libraries.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Improved hoisted script bundling

Astro's static analysis to determine which `<script>` tags to bundle together just got a little smarter!

Astro create bundles that optimize script usage between pages and place them in the head of the document so that they are downloaded as early as possible. One limitation to Astro's exiting approach has been that you could not dynamically use hoisted scripts. Each page received the same, all-inclusive bundle whether or not every script was needed on that page.

Now, Astro has improved the static analysis to take into account the actual imports used. 

For example, Astro would previously bundle the `<scripts>` from both the `<Tab>` and `<Accordian>`  component for the following library that re-exports multiple components:

__@matthewp/my-astro-lib__

```js
export { default as Tabs } from './Tabs.astro';
export { default as Accordion } from './Accordion.astro';
```

Now, when an Astro page only uses a single component, Astro will send only the necessary script to the page. A page that only imports the `<Accordian>` component will not receive any `<Tab>` component's scripts:

```astro
---
import { Accordion } from '@matthewp/my-astro-lib';
---
```

You should now see more efficient performance with Astro now supporting this common library re-export pattern.
```
OK, took a shot at something that both emphasized the change a little earlier (since this is a changeset) and I think works as a narrative for a blog post!

Also, maybe I'm the only one who is picky about this, but telling a story between two code snippets is always tricky when you want to discuss them in tandem, (visually, grammatically...) so I tried to rework to make them each a little more standalone. This helps to make clear what each snippet's meaning or part of the story is, rather than, "Say you had all these pieces...." and then trying to draw a conclusion.

What you had wasn't bad! This is totally for your consideration! But if I had my choice, I'd structure a little something like this.

---
'astro': minor
---

Improved hoisted script bundling

Astro's static analysis to determine which `<script>` tags to bundle together just got a little smarter!

> Astro create bundles that optimize script usage between pages and place them in the head of the document so that they are downloaded as early as possible. One limitation to Astro's existing approach has been that you could not dynamically use hoisted scripts. Each page received the same, all-inclusive bundle whether or not every script was needed on that page.

Author: The existing approach actually did work in most cases (delivering different bundles per page) - this change only fixes the re-export case below.

Reviewer 2: @ottomated Can you suggest a rewording that is true? What would this paragraph have to look like so that it is accurate?

Author: reworded in #7733 !

Now, Astro has improved the static analysis to take into account the actual imports used. 

> For example, Astro would previously bundle the `<scripts>` from both the `<Tab>` and `<Accordian>`  component for the following library that re-exports multiple components:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, Astro would previously bundle the `<script>`s from both the `<Tab>` and `<Accordian>`  component for the following library that re-exports multiple components:
```
